Software CLI Migration doc - Software-specific Install Guide (#699)
astronomer/docs: software/upgrade-astro-cli.md

---
title: "Upgrade to Astro CLI v1.0+"
sidebar_label: "Upgrade to Astro CLI v1.0+"
id: upgrade-astro-cli
description: A list of all breaking changes and upgrade steps related to the major release of Astro CLI v1.0+
---

## Overview

> Astro CLI v1.0 delivers several new features to Astronomer Software and establishes a shared CLI framework between Astro and Software users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astro CLI v1.0 delivers several new features to Astronomer Software and establishes a shared CLI framework across all Astronomer products.
```

> As part of this release, several commands and their flags have been updated, resulting in breaking changes for Software users. Use this document to learn about these breaking changes and prepare for your upgrade to Astro CLI v1.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Several commands and their flags have been updated as part of this release, resulting in breaking changes for users of Astronomer Software. Use this document to learn about these breaking changes and prepare for your upgrade to Astro CLI v1.0.
```

## Upgrade Checklist

Before installing Astro CLI v1.0+, complete all of the following steps:

> - Review [Breaking Changes](upgrade-astro-cli.md#breaking-changes) in this document.
> - Update any CI/CD pipelines or other automated processes that use Astro CLI commands to ensure that these commands do not break After upgrade.
> - Review any custom shortcuts in your local CLI terminal to ensure that your shortcuts do not run any deprecated or broken CLI commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Make sure you are running Astronomer Software v0.28+. If you're not sure, ask your system administrator.
- Review the [Breaking Changes](upgrade-astro-cli.md#breaking-changes) section in this document.
- Update any CI/CD pipelines or automated processes that use Astro CLI commands to ensure that these commands do not break after you upgrade.
- Review any custom shortcuts in your local CLI terminal to ensure that your shortcuts do not run any CLI commands that are no longer supported.
```

> After you complete these steps, upgrade to Astro CLI v1.0+ by following the steps in [Install the CLI](install-cli.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you complete these steps, upgrade to Astro CLI v1.0+ by following the instructions in [Install the CLI](install-cli.md).
```

## Breaking Changes

> This topic contains all information related to breaking changes included in Astro CLI vXX
> 
> Note that this topic does not include information about new non-breaking features and changes. For a summary of these changes, see the [CLI Release Notes](cli-release-notes.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic contains all information related to breaking changes included in Astro CLI v1.0+ relative to Astro CLI v0.28 and below.

This topic does not include information about new features and changes that are not breaking. For a summary of all changes, see the [CLI Release Notes](cli-release-notes.md).
```

### `astro dev init`: New `--use-astronomer-certified` Flag Required for All New Projects Deployed to Software

> When you create a new Software project via `astro dev init`, you must now specify the `--use-astronomer-certified` flag if you want to [deploy the project](deploy-code.md) to a Software deployment. This flag initializes your project with the latest version of Astronomer Certified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you create a new Astro project via `astro dev init`, you must now specify the `--use-astronomer-certified` flag if you want to [deploy the project](deploy-code.md) to a Deployment on Astronomer Software. This flag initializes your project with the latest version of Astronomer Certified.
```

> If you don't specify this flag, the project will be generated with an Astronomer Runtime image. You can run a project with a Runtime image locally, but you cannot deploy it to your Software installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't specify this flag, the project will be generated with an Astro Runtime image. Support for Astro Runtime on Astronomer Software is coming soon.
```

I wouldn't even tell them they can do it locally otherwise they'll be using mixed images and that's less ideal

```sh

> # Before upgrade
> astro dev init
> # After upgrade
> astro dev init --use-astronomer-certified

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Before upgrade
astro dev init

# After upgrade
astro dev init --use-astronomer-certified
```

```

> ### `astro auth login/logout` Is Now `astro login/logout`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `astro auth login` Is Now `astro login`
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The previous `astro auth login` and `astro auth logout` commands have been simplified:
```

```sh

> # Before upgrade
> astro auth login <domain>
> astro auth logout
> # After upgrade
> astro login <domain>
> astro logout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Before upgrade
astro auth login <domain>
astro auth logout

# After upgrade
astro login <domain>
astro logout
```

```

> ### `astro workspace create/update` Now Takes All Properties as Flags

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `astro workspace create/update`: Now Takes All Configurations as Flags
```

I feel like we don't use "properties"?

> When you specify properties for a Workspace using `astro workspace create/update`, you must now specify those properties with new flags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you specify configurations for a Workspace using `astro workspace create` or `astro workspace update`, you must now specify those properties with new flags.
```

```sh

> # Before upgrade
> astro workspace create label=my-workspace
> # After upgrade
> astro workspace create --label=my-workspace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Before upgrade
astro workspace create label=my-workspace

# After upgrade
astro workspace create --label=my-workspace
```

```

### `astro workspace create/update`: `--desc` Flag Has Been Renamed to `--description`

The flag for specifying a description for a Workspace has been renamed from `--desc` to `--description`.

```sh

> # Before upgrade
> astro workspace create label=my-workspace --desc="my description"
> # After upgrade
> astro workspace create --label=my-workspace --description="my description"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Before upgrade
astro workspace create label=my-workspace --desc="my description"

# After upgrade
astro workspace create --label=my-workspace --description="my description"
```

```

### `astro workspace user add`: User Email Is Now Specified as a Flag

You must now specify a new user's email using the `--email` flag when running `astro workspace `

```sh

> # Before upgrade
> astro workspace user add email-to-add@astronomer.io --role WORKSPACE_VIEWER
> # After upgrade
> astro workspace user add --email email-to-add@astronomer.io --role WORKSPACE_VIEWER

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Before upgrade
astro workspace user add name@astronomer.io --role WORKSPACE_VIEWER

# After upgrade
astro workspace user add --email name@astronomer.io --role WORKSPACE_VIEWER
```

```

> ### `astro deploy` Now Accepts a Deployment ID Instead of a Release Name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `astro deploy`: Now Accepts a Deployment ID Instead of a Release Name
```

> If you want to deploy code to a specific Deployment without having to choose from a list, you must now specify that Deployment's ID instead of its release name when running `astro deploy`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To deploy code to a specific Deployment without manually having to choose from a list, you must now specify that Deployment's ID instead of its release name when running `astro deploy`.
```

```sh

> # Before upgrade
> astro deploy <release-name>
> # After upgrade
> astro deploy <deployment-id>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Before upgrade
astro deploy <release-name>

# After upgrade
astro deploy <deployment-id>
```

```

> ### `astro workspace sa get` Is Now `astro workspace sa list`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `astro workspace sa get`: Is Now `astro workspace sa list`
```

```sh

> # Before upgrade
> astro workspace sa get
> # After upgrade
> astro workspace sa list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Before upgrade
astro workspace sa get

# After upgrade
astro workspace sa list
```

```

### `astro deployment/workspace sa create`: `--role` Only Accepts Full Role Names

> The `--role` flag now accepts either `WORKSPACE_EDITOR`, `WORKSPACE_ADMIN`, or `WORKSPACE_VIEWER`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--role` flag now accepts either `WORKSPACE_EDITOR`, `WORKSPACE_ADMIN`, or `WORKSPACE_VIEWER`. You must specify the entirety of these roles.
```

Author: I think this sentence adds confusion, let's just say what the new values are and let the example show the way.

```sh

> # Before upgrade
> astro workspace sa create --role viewer
> # After upgrade
> astro workspace sa create --role WORKSPACE_VIEWER

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Before upgrade
astro workspace sa create --role viewer

# After upgrade
astro workspace sa create --role WORKSPACE_VIEWER
```

```

> ### `astro deployment create/update` Now Takes All Properties as Flags

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `astro deployment create/update`: Now Requires All Configurations as Flags
```

> You must now specify a Deployment's properties using flags when you run `astro deployment create/update`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must now specify a Deployment's properties using flags when you run `astro deployment create` or `astro deployment update`.
```

```sh

> # Before upgrade
> astro deployment create my-deployment --executor=local
> # After upgrade
> astro deployment create --label=my-deployment --executor=local

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Before upgrade
astro deployment create my-deployment --executor=local

# After upgrade
astro deployment create --label=my-deployment --executor=local
```

```

> ### `astro deployment user list` Now Takes Deployment ID as a Flag

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `astro deployment user list`: Now Requires Deployment ID
```

Author: It required a Deployment ID before, but now it's in flag form

> To see users from a specific Deployment, you must now use the `--deployment-id` flag when running `astro deployment user list`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To list users that have access to a specific Deployment, you must now use the `--deployment-id` flag when running `astro deployment user list`.
```

```sh

> # Before upgrade
> astro deployment user list <deployment-id>
> # After upgrade
> astro deployment user list --deployment-id=<deployment-id>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Before upgrade
astro deployment user list <deployment-id>

# After upgrade
astro deployment user list --deployment-id=<deployment-id>
```

```

### `astro deployment user add`: `--email` Flag Is Now Required

You must now specify a user's email using the `--email` flag when running `astro deployment user add`.

```sh

> # Before upgrade
> astro deployment user add <email> --deployment-id=<deployment-id>
> # After upgrade
> astro deployment user add --email=<email> --deployment-id=<deployment-id>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Before upgrade
astro deployment user add <email> --deployment-id=<deployment-id>

# After upgrade
astro deployment user add --email=<email> --deployment-id=<deployment-id>
```

```

> ### `astro deployment user delete` Is Now `astro deployment user remove`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `astro deployment user delete`: Is Now `astro deployment user remove`
```

> 

Reviewer: This command was changed from `delete` to `remove`, as it does not functionally delete the user from the Organization. It simply removes their access to a particular Deployment.

Author: I don't think we necessarily have to explain our reasoning here, at this level a user will only want to know what the change is vs. why

```sh
# Before upgrade

> astro deployment user delete <email> --deployment-id=<deployment-id>
> # After upgrade
> astro deployment user remove <email> --deployment-id=<deployment-id>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
astro deployment user delete <email> --deployment-id=<deployment-id>

# After upgrade
astro deployment user remove <email> --deployment-id=<deployment-id>
```

```

> ### `astro logs <component>` Is Now Deprecated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `astro logs <component>`: Is Now Deprecated
```

> The `astro logs` commands has been removed. This command has been non-functional for the last several CLI releases. Instead, use `astro deployment logs <component>` to see logs for a specific Deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `astro logs` commands has been removed. This command has been non-functional for the last several CLI releases. Instead, use `astro dev logs` to see logs locally or `astro deployment logs <component>` to see logs for a Deployment hosted on Astronomer Software.
```

> ### `astro cluster list/switch` Is Now `astro context list/switch`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `astro cluster list/switch`: Is Now `astro context list/switch`
```

```sh

> # Before upgrade
> astro cluster list
> # After upgrade
> astro context list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Before upgrade
astro cluster list

# After upgrade
astro context list
```

```

### `astro deployment sa create`: `--system-sa` and `--user-id` are Deprecated

The `--system-sa` and `--user-id` flags have been deprecated for `astro deployment sa create`. These flags have not been functional for the last several CLI versions.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ### `astro dev init`: Shortcut for `--ariflow-version` Is Now `-a`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `astro dev init`: Shortcut for `--airflow-version` Is Now `-a`
```

The shortcut for specifying an Astronomer Certified version for `astro dev init` has been changed from `-v` to `-a`.

```sh

> # Before upgrade
> astro dev init -v=2.3.0
> # After upgrade
> astro dev init -a=2.3.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Before upgrade
astro dev init -v=2.3.0

# After upgrade
astro dev init -a=2.3.0
```
